He came here in 529.
And was there already an abbey here of some sort?
Ah, c'era un... qualche cosa religiosa, no?
Si, un culto ad Apollo.
Ah, si, ma non cristiano.
No, prima di... No, culto ad Apollo, culto a Giorgio.
Ah, so the temple up here was... un templo di Apollo and Jupiter.
Oh, that's not in chiesa monastica.
Però prima di che fosse venuto Benedetto non c'era... No, before Benedetto was nothing Christian.
The so-called library, which is where the books are stamped, is the first floor here, all along this floor, and there are still two floors.
The printer was always in Austria, and it's also not closed.
The printer was always in Austria.
Ah, the printed books in the library.
I don't know what it is.
My eyes right here.
Okay.
What's your question?
If you want to come and work here, you have to stay in a hotel in the city.
Francis Newton, a professor from Duke, comes here every sabbatical.
This is my heaven.
Oh my goodness.
It used to be called the archive courtyard.
But now it's called the library.
courtyards because they moved the archives up there.
I want to take a picture of this.
If you have any specific questions, I'll answer your question.
We must be very close to, what's his name?
Faustino.
Brother?
Brother Don Faustino, they called him.
F-A-U-S?
F-A-U-S-T-I-N-O.
So they move the archive so it's only the library.
And he says it's not very presentable.
It doesn't matter.
You have to start that.
Here you go.
where there are empty shells.
These used to have parchments inside, but mostly they've moved these things.
How old is that?
960.
What is it?
What do you say?
It's a place where it's a place where it's a place where it's a place where it's a place where it's a place where it's a place where it's a place where it's a place where it's a place where it's a place where it's a place where it's a place where it's a place where it's a place where it's a place where it's a place where it's a place
It's a legal student.
This is a witness, this is my testimony that the land belongs to the land before.
The three words were written in Italian.
... ... ... ... ... ... ...
I have a difference between the archive and the library.
Ah, printed books, he says, are in the library.
We have the first standard book in Italy, in 1465.
They have another, they have a copy of the first book that Schreinheim and Panner.
They do.
They have it here.
The father of the church.
Hanno stampato tre titoli, ha studiato.
Di Gerone e una grammatica che fa.
So they have the Father, the Church, one of the three.
Parchment.
Ah, I like that, like parchment.
Ah, okay.
Oh, yeah, like the archives of the order.
This abbey is a diocese has a bishop.
Ah, so it was administered all the territories.
Yes, because it's very complex.
Not all monasteries are abbeys.
Only people at convents are the Franciscans.
I don't... Where the monks live is the monastery.
I see.
If the abbey is the head of the monastery, it's all a... If the abbey is the head of the monastery, it's all a... If the abbey is the head of the monastery, it's all a... If the abbey is the head of the monastery, it's all a... If the abbey is the head of the monastery, it's all a... If the abbey is the head of the monastery, it's all a... If the abbey is the head of the monastery, it's all a... If the abbey is the head of the monastery, it's all a... If the abbey is the head of the monastery, it's all a... If the abbey is the head of the monastery, it's all a... If the abbey is the head of the monastery, it's all a... If the abbey is the head of the monastery, it's all a... If the abbey is the head of the monastery, it's all a... If the abbey is the head of the monastery, it's all a...
Okay, if it has land, it's called an abbey, and if it has an abbot, who's the head monk.
Otherwise, if it's too small, it doesn't have any land, it's called a monastery.
But they're very similar.
Look at these books.
Bombardements.
During the war, the German soldiers took them to Polanco and then the Vatican.
But he has to tell the truth that the Germans saved this library, that the Allies bombed it.
It's very important because they took the books away.
So it was a British
general named Alexander who gave the order to bomb.
He was horrible.
Yes, and Clark had been sent away to Amzio where he made the mistake of leaving the Americans on the beach.
He's going to give us a book about the bombardment.
These were all saved by, they were sent to Rome, is that right?
Well, they first were brought to Spoleto.
Where's Spoleto?
In Umbria.
S-P-O-L-E.
He says, don't worry, because it's all written in the book.
30,000 books.
So the Germans took away.
And took away also the archives.
So the books that were destroyed were those from the 1880s.
1,500 and modern books.
More than 100,000 books were burned up in them.
But these are incunables and they're incunabula.
They have 280 incunabula.
They have 290 incunabula.
But this is the library here.
They're going to incorporate those rooms into the library, which two years ago were part of the archives.
This is the library here.
Have you ever seen a library like this?
See, these aren't incunibals, but I can tell you they're very old.
Look at 1578, 1578, 1546.
These are all very old books.
They're not incunibals, but they're all 16th century.
And how many students have been there?
Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes,
So about a thousand, a thousand, one hundred readers per year.
It's such a specialized library.
They mostly come from England, USA, and Germany.
Italiani?
Italiani.
They took 40.000 books away.
40.000 books.
40,000 printed books up to 1800, and then all the manuscripts and the archives in a military convoy to 1 Spoleto and then to the Vatican.
I don't know what research is it.
That's the first book printed in Italy?
Yes, that's the first book printed in Italy.
I have to get a picture of that.
Oh, that's wonderful.
And you can just stay right there.
Put your hand, point.
Yeah, just like that would be excellent.
I have plenty of pictures with you.
Okay.
I have a picture of the fodder like this.
I'm so unmechanical.
This is kind of every so often.
Oh, it's my...
I'll have plenty of time.
Question 65.
Sono tipografi di origine tedesca.
Sì, sì.
Sì, stanno a lontano.
Ho scritto sulla biblioteca di Subbiato, ovviamente, poi gli mando...
This is one of the 300 exemplars that were made in alto-bianco.
And the most beautiful thing is that the alto-bianco was to find the alto-bianco.
Then they found the alto-bianco.
So they had, they were going to put it in the chat.
They have some empty books.
They have some empty books to write in Greek.
Yes, for free.
Just what I understand.
I thought that it was Aldous Minutius who printed the paper paper paper paper paper paper paper paper paper paper paper paper paper paper paper paper paper paper paper paper paper paper paper paper paper paper paper paper paper paper paper paper paper paper paper paper paper paper paper paper paper paper paper
This is like a work in progress because I didn't put in all the Greeks.
I guess it's Minucius who printed the first book totally.
Because first they printed the Latin and then they had to insert, they printed, they put it back in the printing press to put it in the green.
Ask him, have they always had this copy of this book?
Did they acquire it when it was printed?
It came as soon as it was, because this was, that was a Benedictine.
The same order.
So they always had it?
Yes, always had it.
That's wonderful.
Yes.
Ask if we could see the coliform at the back.
Ah, the coliform.
This is originale, this is copied from another one.
Ah, yes.
So, you see?
1460, you see?
Mm-hmm.
Ah, yes, yes.
This is modern?
Yes, yes, yes.
But the originality is this.
Ah, yes.
Yes.
But the 1460, you see?
Yes, yes.
There's a name in French there too.
Monasteris Venerable Monasteris Brescian.
No, no.
No, I'm sorry, I'm going to give it away.
He went to take the manuscripts to the splendors of Byzantium.
We saw that exhibition.
It was wonderful.
Oh, it was a wonderful exhibition.
Wonderful.
We have the catalog.
We have the catalog at home.
The Greek Patriarch of the opening of the exhibition.
They were manuscripts.
They were manuscripts, but the first time they came from Montiato.
Two manuscripts that he brought had the Byzantine illumination.
I love how you do that.
They were insured for 20 million dollars each.
Which books?
The catalog of the Incunabulus.
Around 300 Incunabulus they have here.
He's going to show us the manuscript.
Ma qui può entrare, diciamo, se viene uno studioso?
E' solo lei che può venire a prendere la tante, perché la signora non lo vogliono.
Sì, per il momento non è ancora più.
No, ma diciamo che qui i lettori non possono entrare.
Sì, ma in genere sono qui alla prima volta.
But when will it be?
Yes, it will be.
It will be.
He doesn't know what's going to happen.
From the end of the 17th century.
Ah, Warburg.
Warburg, sorry.
The library now in England said that
A book is a book but two books at the beginning of the library.
I had a lot of money, I had a lot of money, I had a lot of money, I had a lot of money, I had a lot of money, I had a lot of money.
who lived some years in Italy.
Then, with the war, they saved the time, because in the 1936, the biblioteca was already being attacked by the Nazis.
They were dead.
The Warburg Library, I haven't seen it, it was the beginning of the Quirclean Institute, but I'm not too sure.
I wrote the books in January.
Yes, it's the first old book.
It's a word that used to say that
People who love books should be tractable, so you should let them use the library and open stacks.
Thank you.
When they were here, who was there?
They wanted to see if there were any tracks.
Yes, that's why they met.
When they were so far.
I'm going to tell you, I'm going to tell you, I'm going to tell you, I'm going to tell you, I'm going to tell you, I'm going to tell you, I'm going to tell you.
We should meet him in front of the church.
He was called like a wet blanket, this man, by foretelling this, for writing this account, because they didn't...
What was he called that?
Because he said the truth.
He speaks about how it was bombed.
The author of the bomb.
He came from the New Zealand... Who were the closest allies to the... Oh, okay.
So the New Zealanders told General Alexander that the Germans were inside the army.
He said they weren't inside the army.
He says that the New Zealanders
It's sad that the Germans were inside the abbey and said they weren't inside the abbey.
That's important.
C'è questo libro qui, anche in italiano?
... ... ... ... ... ...
Belmont.
There it is, Cambridge, Massachusetts.
He says if you go to, if you call him and go to visit him, you can bring him greetings and you could talk to him about when he was here.
He wrote, he books about when he was here.
It's a post-bizantina in 1066.
There are all the inscriptions that we have.
When we go, we see them.
There are three volumes published in the book.
There are a lot of articles in the book.
That sounds fascinating.
Very nice.
He fights you several times.
Thank you.
I want his address because I want to send him a book.
Sure.
Thank you.
Ask them if when they rebuilt, did they try and use many of the bolts of the stones?
This is really something.
So they used what was still usable.
So I'm using them.
Oh.
These are the melodies, the diary of those.
In the monastery there were...
... ... ... ... ... ... ...
So this was a notice to warn the people inside the Abbey that the Abbey...
In the, I'll show you in the upper zone.
In the night, the day before.
Ah, get out of here.
Oh, these are these ones.
These are these ones.
And I'll be talking with the... They dropped away, but they said we're going to bomb it.
Yeah, but the addict who got one of them.
So, the night after the farming, the abyss rose.
I have a question for you, if you have a question for me, if you have a question for me, I have a question for you.
Yes, yes, yes.
Oh, you knew that the abbey was when the 12th went at the bottom, but there were 12 months in the abbey.
And they were killed.
for 20, 20, 20, 20, 20.
So, there were a lot of civilians here, and they had a lot of civilians here.
They had a lot of civilians here, and they had a lot of civilians here, and they had a lot of civilians here, and they had a lot of civilians here, and they had a lot of civilians here.
I didn't want to stand on my stairs.
What do I do?
Oh.
I just want to get a picture like this.
His words are explained in the bottom of the screen.
It seems very anxious.
It really does.
OK.
Because you can understand all this, I want to look at it.
1940s, I need to, I need to, I need to, I need to, I need to, I need to, I need to, I need to, I need to, I need to, I need to.
The 14th October 1942, two Dutch officials say that they have to go to the market.
Five days after the 19th October, the Dutch already organized the first coups.
This is the colonel in Austriaco.
Yes.
Here are the days of the start of the monarchy.
Where are you going?
I'm going to Luma.
There are various monasteries in San Paolo, San Santermo, San Chirolamo, Aurelia, San Dapraselli.
They are going to Luma.
and while all the bibliotheca and the archivio are brought to school, then you can see the great pictures and then you can see the great pictures and then you can see the great pictures
This is the post of all the cacchetti.
So, I'll try to see if they can salvage their lives.
Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes
These are the gombi of the monastery, these are the pellegrini.
Signora, can you do this?
8 Vicente.
L'Archino viene portato da Spoleto in Vaticano, a Casa del San D'Angelo, però.
Adrian Stone.
Allora, signora, allora bisogna dire, perché è Cristo?
Questa è una domanda, un problema.
Spoleto viene fuori per Roma, quindi il motivo per che l'hanno portato da Spoleto è perché se rimane ancora, ancora... No.
The archivist, when he went to Rome, he was the first part of the photograph.
This is the first part of the decision.
He went to Rome and went to Rome and he informed the Secretariat of the State.
They have informed the Italian government that had been in custody of all of them, and that if they had put in motion a machine, they could be able to save their children.
They had obtained an inspection, and that is the reason why,
How does the German mean?
like there, the German Cultural Institute in Rome, went to Slado and wrote for her report, so that the Italian authorities would announce how important it was to say that right there,
The Germans had a kind of storage area as well.
You see, the Maffamondo is in the middle of the middle of the middle of the middle of the middle of the middle of the middle of the middle of the middle of the middle of the middle of the middle
In our monastery, these are 260 cars in Pallangio, from the Museum of Napoli.
They were in the deposit here, before August 1943, in the deposit, the most beautiful square of the Museum of Napoli, the Capodermonde.
And in the tedesco they went to Rome, right?
Oh, so before they even stopped.
They kept here, for safety, but that's works of art from Naples.
And so the Germans took some of these also to Rome, you see, this one with a big, really big one.
No, and then they took me to Germany, but works of art because...
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
She said it started in a certain way, even if they had taken them on the helmet.
had sustained them instead of they survived and stayed here they would have again incinerated memories.
Allora, signora, vede che piazza, è ancora questa?
Si ringraziano i tedeschi, questo è uno solo funzionario del ministero, ebbene, sta ringraziando gli attenzionamenti dell'aiuto dato alla bidedeca.
Yes.
After, in general, how did you go?
So in the German the party said that
they would leave the last day.
Those German soldiers ended the average 12 months and 60-parent farmers could take them.
Well, I didn't know that.
And there are no refugees because there is no more access.
1500 inhabitants down there and had come up here.
All right, so the 1500 thousand people that lived in the States were so cold that the Abbot that he can't live in the States, in the gravels, in the mountains, are really just coming in the Abbot.
February, this is the situation terrible, because they have little bombs close to us.
14-11, it's about 2 in the morning.
14-11, there is a bomb in the garden, but it's all full of volantini.
This is a volantini.
All right, so they've got 6 stamps, so they've got to get them in charge.
They say, let's get them in charge because we're going to get them in charge.
Yes, we're going to get them in charge.
And the next morning, the next morning, the next morning, the next morning, the next morning.
But I think about the other one, the monastery and the water.
This is a very difficult moment, you see?
Yes.
All right, the volantino, the base is here in the monastery, but there is a tunnel in the monastery, where there were still 600 people.
Oh, okay, so...
One of these 300 people still left brought this to the head of the abbot and said, why do you have this printed so that you're going to force us to leave?
Because he didn't think, he didn't believe that it was the abbot who had done it.
Fanno venire un giovane ufficiale tedesco per parlare con la base.
E lui vede il volantino.
E lui ha detto la verità, non abbiamo notizie dei bombardamenti.
Però adesso torno alla Princea e chiedo informazioni al comando tedesco.
And I'll come back to the 5th.
He said the truth, and he confirmed that we have had here, in the 10th century, a colonel americano, and that was the first pilot of the American bombardment.
He had a lot of...
So, it says that they know that they can come by one of the Americans in the palace.
Yes, because the official is torn at the 5th of the morning, the 15th of February, before the bombardment, at the 5th of the morning, he is back to the monastery again, and he says that our commander has not captured the bombardment of the bombardment.
And it is true, because
This pilot American, written Evan, has brought us a copy of l'Ordine dei Giorni, Lavellina.
He has ordered Evan, and shows... He has brought us, I don't know if we call him the Pentagon, but he says...
So the pilots were told to leave whether they left them.
It was so secret that they were only told
Two hours before they... they say they were... I have a copy.
I have a copy of this.
Four hours before the bombing and the fire of it.
The pilot is only one last week when he is the pilot.
He has had a control of his body.
They were part of an aeroplane with a military ally, near Foggia, near Foggia, near Foggia, near Foggia, near Foggia, near Foggia, near Foggia, near Foggia, near Foggia, near Foggia, near Foggia, near Foggia, near Foggia, near Foggia, near Foggia, near Foggia, near Foggia, near Foggia, near Foggia, near Foggia, near Foggia, near Foggia, near Foggia, near Foggia, near Foggia, near Foggia, near Foggia, near Foggia, near Foggia, near Foggia, near Foggia, near Foggia, near Foggia, near Foggia, near Foggia, near Foggia, near Foggia, near Foggia, near Foggia, near Foggia, near Foggia, near Foggia, near
And then how many factors are there?
Some of them are out of the night, but at the moment of the comportment, there are only 300 people here.
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
This is a general, a general, a very good friend.
This is a general, a very good friend.
This is a general, very good friend.
... ... ... ... ...
I'd love to know what they had in mind.
Yeah, why, why?
What were they trying to prove?
Well, in some way... This is important.
Signora, this is a photo storica.
Vede dove è inserisciato?
E' lontano e l'uomo la stessa.
So only the freedom gets to go and die.
When we had published this memory of the Monachy, it was in the diary that they made the Monachy.
When I was ready to write about it, our host, our old school, our old school,
He was an ambassador to Stamacca, in this moment he was an ambassador to Moscow.
He was a very good family from Sicilia.
He was in pension.
He came here for a week as a host.
He told me to read his memory.
They can't split hair.
They had someone made the magazine.
Yeah, but the Germans were up on the mountain.
They weren't inside the monastery, but they were a hundred meters from here.
But the Germans were here.
Not inside.
Not inside the building.
Sì, comunque i tedeschi sopra la montagna c'erano, solo che non era da dentro la... Sì, però signore il problema è che si dovevano andare a Roma, non è che dovevano andare, non dovevano andare a Monte Cassino.
The Germans had made the salt of the mortals to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able
Yeah, if they had done a joint push from Amzio, if they had moved immediately from Amzio, moved here, the Germans,
would never have been able to resist, but that's kind of theoretical.
Clark didn't want to bomb Casino, he says, but Alexander did.
That Alexander was terrible.